tidb-in-kubernetes: add TiDB Operator setup and upgrade guide (#1240)
pingcap/docs: tidb-in-kubernetes/setup.md

> # TiDB Operator Setup

Reviewer: Please add the metadata section. Otherwise, the website build will fail.

Author: done

1. Install helm client

    ```
    $ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/helm/master/scripts/get | bash
    ```

    Or if you use macOS, you can use homebrew to install Helm by `brew install kubernetes-helm`

2. Install helm server

    ```shell
    $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/manifests/tiller-rbac.yaml
    $ helm init --service-account=tiller --upgrade
    $ kubectl get po -n kube-system -l name=tiller # make sure tiller pod is running
    ```

    If `RBAC` is not enabled for the Kubernetes cluster, then `helm init --upgrade` should be enough.
3. Add Helm repo

    Helm repo (http://charts.pingcap.org/) houses PingCAP managed charts, such as tidb-operator, tidb-cluster and tidb-backup, etc. Add and check the repo with following commands:
    ```shell
	$ helm repo add pingcap http://charts.pingcap.org/
	$ helm repo list
    ```

    Then you can check the avaliable charts:
    ```shell
	$ helm repo update
	$ helm search tidb-cluster -l
	$ helm search tidb-operator -l
    ```
## Local Persistent Volume

> ### Prepare local volumes

Author: It should be "volumes".

---
title: Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes

> summary: TiDB Operator Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes.
```

category: how-to
---

# Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes

> 

Reviewer: Add an intro sentence.
```suggestion
This document describes how to deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes.
```

## Prerequisites

Before deploying TiDB Operator, make sure the following items are installed on your machine:

* Kubernetes >= v1.10
* [DNS addons](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-dns-cluster/)
* [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
* [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac) enabled (optional)
* [Helm](https://helm.sh) version >= v2.8.2 and < v3.0.0

> * Kubernetes v1.12 or higher version is required for zone-aware persistent volumes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kubernetes v1.12 or later version is required for zone-aware persistent volumes.
```

> **Note:** 
>
> + Although TiDB Operator can use network volume to persist TiDB data, this process could be very slow due to the redundant replication. It is highly recommended to set up [local volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local) for better performance.
>
> + Network volumes in a multi-availability zone setup require Kubernetes v1.12 or higher version. It is recommended to use networked volumes to store backup data in `tidb-bakup` chart.

## Deploy Kubernetes cluster

TiDB Operator runs in Kubernetes cluster. You can use one of the methods listed [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/pick-right-solution/) to set up a Kubernetes cluster. Make sure that the Kubernetes version is v1.10 or higher. If you are using AWS, GKE or local machine, here are quick-start tutorials:

> * [Local DinD tutorial](/how-to/get-started/deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-dind.md)

Reviewer 2: The link is still broken. Should the path be /dev/how-to/get-started/deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-dind.md ?

> * [Google GKE tutorial](/how-to/get-started/deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-gke.md)

Reviewer 2: ditto

> * [AWS EKS tutorial](/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/tidb-in-kubernetes/aws-eks.md)

Reviewer 2: ditto

> If you are deploying in a different environment, a proper DNS addon must be installed in the Kubernetes cluster. You can follow the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-dns-cluster/) to set up a DNS addon.

Reviewer: addon -> extension?
```suggestion
If you are deploying in a different environment, a proper DNS addon must be installed in the Kubernetes cluster. You can follow the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-dns-cluster/) to set up a DNS extension.
```

Author: Suggest to keep the "addon" term:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/addons/

Reviewer: @DanielZhangQD Got it!

> TiDB Operator uses [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) to persist the data of TiDB cluster (including the database, monitoring data, backup data), so Kubernetes cluster must provide at least one kind of persistent volume. For better performance, it is recommended to use local SSD disk as the volumes. Follow [this step](#local-persistent-volume) to auto-provision local persistent volumes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Operator uses [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) to persist the data of TiDB cluster (including the database, monitoring data, backup data), so the Kubernetes cluster must provide at least one kind of persistent volume. For better performance, it is recommended to use local SSD disk as the volumes. Follow [this step](#local-persistent-volume) to auto-provision local persistent volumes.
```

It is suggested to enable [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac) in the Kubernetes cluster. Otherwise, you need to set `rbac.create` to `false` in the `values.yaml` of both `tidb-operator` and `tidb-cluster` charts.

> Because TiDB by default will use many file descriptors, the [worker node](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/61334) and its Docker daemon's `ulimit` must be configured to `1048576` or bigger:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because TiDB uses many file descriptors by default, the [worker node](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/61334) and its Docker daemon's `ulimit` must be configured to `1048576` or bigger:
```

Set `scheduler.kubeSchedulerImage` in the `/home/tidb/tidb-operator/values-tidb-operator.yaml` file as same as the image of your kubernetes cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
helm install pingcap/tidb-operator --name=tidb-operator --namespace=tidb-admin --version=${chartVersion} -f /home/tidb/tidb-operator/values-tidb-operator.yaml && \
kubectl get po -n tidb-admin -l app.kubernetes.io/name=tidb-operator
```

## Customize TiDB Operator

To customize TiDB Operator, modify `/home/tidb/tidb-operator/values-tidb-operator.yaml`. The rest sections of the document use `values.yaml` to refer to `/home/tidb/tidb-operator/values-tidb-operator.yaml`

TiDB Operator contains two components:

* tidb-controller-manager
* tidb-scheduler

These two components are stateless and deployed via `Deployment`. You can customize `replicas` and resource limits/requests as you wish in the `values.yaml`.

After modifying `values.yaml`, run the following command to apply this modification:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
helm upgrade tidb-operator pingcap/tidb-operator --version=${chartVersion} -f /home/tidb/tidb-operator/values-tidb-operator.yaml
```

## Upgrade TiDB Operator

> Similar to customizing TiDB Operator, upgrading TiDB Operator needs you to modify the image version in `values.yaml` and then run `helm upgrade`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade TiDB Operator, modify the image version in the `values.yaml` file and then run `helm upgrade`:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
helm upgrade tidb-operator pingcap/tidb-operator --version=${chartVersion} -f /home/tidb/tidb-operator/values-tidb-operator.yaml
```

> When a new version of `tidb-operator` is released, you only need to update the `operatorImage` in `values.yaml` and run the above command. But to be really safe, you should get the new `values.yaml` from new `tidb-operator` chart and merge the old `values.yaml` with the new one. And then upgrade as above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new version of `tidb-operator` is released, you only need to update `operatorImage` in `values.yaml` and run the above command. But to guarantee safety, you must get the new `values.yaml` file from the new `tidb-operator` chart and merge the old `values.yaml` file with the new one. And then upgrade as above.
```

TiDB Operator is used for maintaining TiDB cluster. This means that when TiDB cluster is up and running, you can even stop TiDB Operator without affecting TiDB cluster that works well until you need to maintain the cluster for scaling, upgrading, etc.

## Upgrade Kubernetes

> When there is a major version upgrade of Kubernetes, you need to make sure that `kubeSchedulerImageTag` matches the version. By default, this value is generated by Helm during the installation/upgrade process. To reset this value, you need to execute `helm upgrade`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is a major version upgrade of Kubernetes, you need to make sure that `kubeSchedulerImageTag` matches the version. By default, this value is generated by Helm during the installation or upgrade process. To reset this value, execute `helm upgrade`.
```
